# Learning to count

We are now going to learn how to count.

Suppose we are interested in the number of possible way to arrange on order n element.

The first position can be occupied by all the n elements, the second position by n-1 elements, the third position by n-2 elements, the last position by just 1 element.

So the way is possible to arrage n element in a row is n * (n-1) * (n-2) * ... * 1 = n!

## Permutation

Suppose now that we want to arrage in order n elements from a pool of M elements, in such a way that the order of arragement counts.

Just count again, the first element can be select between M element, the second one between M-1, the third between M-2, the last between M-n+1 element.

So the permutation of n element from a pool of M element Pn,M = M * M-1 * M-2 * ... * M-n+1
 
It is easy to show that it is equivalent to Pn,M = M!/(M - n)!

## Combination

Finally suppose that we want to simply pick n elements from a pool of M elements, in this case the order of the elements does not count.

If the order do not count we have will have some redundancies, the row "ABC" will be the same that the row "BCA".

We can think about permutation as combination without the redundancies.

To eliminate all the redundancies we can just figure out in how many way is possible to arrage n elements (as we show early is n!) and divide by such number.

Finally Cn,M = Pn,M/n! = M! / ( (M-n)! * n! )

## Partition

Finally it is intuitive that if we want to pick k different group of element (not order) from a pool of M elements, we just need to remove all the redundancies from any group, this will lead to M! / (A1! * A2! * A3! * ... Ak!)

## Conditional probability

What is the probability of the event A if we know that the event B happened ?

P(A|B) = P(A intersection B) / P(B)

This definition can be given as asiomatic, however let's consider a very simple example.

Supose to have 5 marble, 2 blue and 3 red.

We now are going to draw two marble, what are the possibilities that the second marble we draw is blue ?

If first we got a red marble (3/5) we will have a 2/4 changes, but if we first draw a blue one (2/5) we have only 1/4 changes.

So draw the possibilities to draw the sequence Red-Blue is 3/5 * 2/4 = 6/20 = 3/10 while the possibilities to draw the sequence Blue-Blue is 2/5 * 1/4 = 2/20 = 1/10

Let's call A the event in which we are interested, so A is "Draw a blue marble the second time", while we are going to call B the event we can observe, so the first marble we draw.

Rearaging the equation above:

P(A intersection B) = P(B) * P(A|B)

we can see that this is exactly the equation we have used previously to calculatr our possibilities.

## Indipendent events

Events are called indipendent if and only if:

P(A|B) = P(A) <=> P(B|A) = P(B) <=> P(A intersection B) = P(A)*P(B)

P(A|B) = P(A) = P(A int. B)/P(B) => P(A)P(B) = P(A int B)

So if A and B are indipendent.

P(A int B) = P(A)P(B)

and it can be extended to n variable

## Law of Probability

P(A int B int C) = P(C| A int B)P(A int B) = P(C) * P(A int B) (if C is indipent) = P(C) * P(A) * P(B) (if A and B are indipendent)

## Additive

P(A Union B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A int B)

## Complementary

P(A) + P(~A) = 1

# Law of Total Probability

Assume that S = B1 int B2 int ... int Bk where P(Bi) > 0 for i = 1, ..., k and Bi int Bj = 0 for i != j then for an event A:

P(A) = Sigma_i=1_k P(Bi)P(A|Bi)
